This place is said to be so tranquil that on occasion you can only hear the sound of a woodpecker.
It was the type of place where you could go “and dream quietly away the remnant of a troubled life.” There was no more of a serene place than this.
The inhabitants of this place, which is known as Sleepy Hollow, are descendants of the first Dutch setters.
It is rumored that this glen is haunted by a High German doctor who practiced sorcery.
He is believed to have cast a spell on the little town of Sleepy Hollow.
Some say he is the ghost of a Hessian trooper, a British mercenary, whose head was shot off during the Revolutionary War.
Anyone who has ever lived there has seen him riding at night, “as if on the wings of the wind.” He travels through the glen, pass the church, and down neighboring roads.
During a remote period in American History lived a teacher by the name of Ichabod Crane.
Ichabod was an itinerant school teacher who came to Sleepy Hollow to fill the teaching vacancy.
The windows were dull and they were “partly patched with leaves of old copybooks.” The school was situated in a wooded area close to a brook.
However, his punishments were always followed by the assurance that the young student would remember the punishment, and thank him in the long run.
Ichabod Crane was considered the master singer of the neighborhood.
He added to his income by teaching music and on Sunday mornings he served as choir director.
“His voice resounded far above all the rest of the congregation” and his education and accomplishments made him an important figure among the women.
In addition, Crane was prone to carry gossip from one house to another.
He was quite knowledgeable of Cotton Mather's “History of New England Witchcraft.” After school, he would often retire to the brook.
Then, he would make his way to his farmhouse as he traveled through the woods listening to the sounds of nature.
His imagination began to take over and ideas of ghosts and evil spirits arose.
The only thing he could do to drown those thoughts was to sing his way home.
Neighbors would hear him sing melodies that floated from the “distant hill.” All the while, Ichabod walked towards home questioning every rustling shrub, sounds of howling from the trees, glares from distant windows, shadows and shapes, and the sounds of his own footsteps.
“All these, however, were mere terrors of the night, phantoms of the mind that walk in darkness.” Ichabod held music classes one evening each week.
One of his students was 18­ year­old Katrina Van Tassel, the daughter of a prominent Dutch family.
He visited her home, which was the mansion of her father, Baltus Van Tassel who was a proud man that was not caught up in his wealth.
He knew that she would inherit all that his eyes beheld.
Ichabod began to plot how to gain the affection of Katrina.
There were difficulties to handle.
Ichabod described him as “Herculean.” Abraham was known throughout as Brom Bones.
“The neighbors looked upon him with a mixture of awe, admiration, and good­will; and, when any madcap prank or rustic brawl occurred in the vicinity, always shook their heads, and warranted Brom Bones was at the bottom of it.” Such a formidable rival would discourage the average man, but not Ichabod Crane.
“Ichabod became the object of whimsical persecution by Bones and his gang of rough riders.” They stopped up the chimney at the time he was having his music class.
Brom even taught his dog to howl whenever Ichabod was teaching music.
One fine autumn day, while his students were working in the schoolhouse, an African American man came to the school.
He was riding on a half­broken colt.
He brought Ichabod an invitation to Mynheer (Dutch for “Mr.”) Van Tassel's party.
Ichabod dismissed class early without having the students put away the books or clean up.
He devoted extra time to prepare himself for the party so that his appearance was stylish to his mistress.
He borrowed an old broken­down horse from his neighbor.
“Ichabod was a suitable figure for such a steed.” The horse’s name was Gunpowder, which suggests that he must have been fiery at one time.
As he rode to the house, he imagined the types of food that would be served to him by Katrina’s own hands.
“Brom Bones was the hero of the scene, having come to the gathering on his favorite steed Daredevil, a creature, like himself, full of mettle and mischief, and which no one but himself could manage.” As Ichabod entered the parlor, he gazed upon the delicacies of his imagination and he enjoyed them all as he contemplated owning all around him.
No longer would he be in that old schoolhouse, he thought.
“The musician was an old gray­headed negro, who had been the itinerant orchestra of the neighborhood for more than half a century.
Once the dance was over, Ichabod was drawn to a gathering of old men who told stories of the war and former times.
The most intriguing were the tales of ghosts and apparitions in the vicinity of Sleepy Hollow.
“Many dismal tales were told about funeral trains, and mourning cries and wailings heard and seen about the great tree where the unfortunate Major André was taken, and which stood in the neighborhood.” The favorite tale was that of the Headless Horseman who was said to roam the country, and to ride his horse through the churchyard cemetery.
Brom Bones told how he encountered the Horseman who challenged him to a race.
Brom contended that he would have won if the Horseman had not “vanished in a flash of fire.” Ichabod described the fearful sights he had seen while walking at night, but he had not experienced sightings of the Headless Horseman.
Ichabod stayed for a while to talk to Katrina.
As he traveled home, he could hear the barking of a dog, the croaking of a bullfrog, and the crowing of a rooster.
The sounds were so far away that they were like dreams to Ichabod.
Visually, there were no signs of life.
He was nearing the enormous tulip tree that was used to hang the British spy, Major John André.
Ichabod thought he heard a whistle and a groan.
Finally, he passed the tree unharmed, but two hundred yards from the tree was a small brook and a rustic bridge made of logs.
This was the exact place where André was captured and the stream was said to be haunted.
As Ichabod approached the stream in fear, he tried to get his horse to race across the bridge, but old Gunpowder ended up coming to a quick stop at the bridge.
It stood perfectly still as if it was preparing to attack.
Ichabod was so scared that that his hair stood up on his head.
He mustered up enough courage to speak.
“Who are you?” He got no answer.
Whenever he speeded up, the stranger did the same.
If Ichabod slowed down, the stranger did the same.
Then, light gave him a clearer glimpse of the stranger.
“Ichabod was horror­struck on perceiving that he was headless!” He saw the stranger’s head hanging from his saddle.
“His terror rose to desperation; he rained a shower of kicks and blows upon Gunpowder, hoping by a sudden movement to give his companion the slip; but the spectre started full jump with him.
Away, then, they dashed through thick and thin; stones flying and sparks flashing at every bound.
Ichabod's flimsy garments fluttered in the air, as he stretched his long lank body away over his horse's head, in the eagerness of his flight.” When Ichabod reached the road to Sleepy Hollow, Gunpowder turned in the opposite direction towards a shady hollow leading to a whitewashed church.
As Gunpowder sped through the hollow, Ichabod felt the saddle slip from under him.
All he could do was to hold onto the neck of his horse.
Eventually, he saw a clearing and the church was close by.
Hopefully, the bridge was even closer.
He remembered that Brom said the Headless Horseman had disappeared at that point.
“If I can but reach that bridge,” thought Ichabod, “I am safe.” So he kicked Gunpowder in his ribs and the horse flew across the bridge.
Ichabod knew he was not safely out of the range of the Headless Horseman.
The Horseman reared up and he hurled his head at Ichabod.
“It encountered his cranium with a tremendous crash,—he was tumbled headlong into the dust, and Gunpowder, the black steed, and the goblin rider, passed by like a whirlwind.” The next morning, Gunpowder showed up at his master’s gate without the saddle and there was no sign of Ichabod Crane.
Ichabod never showed up for breakfast or work.
The boys at the school searched, but there was no sign of Ichabod.
Hans Van Ripper, Gunpowder’s owner, started his own search for Ichabod.
He found his saddle on the road leading to the church.
They searched the brook for his body, but his body was not found.
Hans Van Ripper was the executor of Ichabod Crane’s estate.
All of Ichabod’s property was contained in one large bundle.
“They consisted of two shirts and a half; two stocks for the neck; a pair or two of worsted stockings; an old pair of corduroy small­ clothes; a rusty razor; a book of psalm tunes full of dog's­ears; and a broken pitch­pipe.” Dog’s­ears are the folded down corners of a book that lets you know where you left off reading.
He also had a copy of Cotton Mather's “History of New England Witchcraft,” a “New England Almanac,” and a book of dreams and fortune­telling.
Ichabod’s last salary was the only money he had and it must have been on him when he disappeared.
The people of the town, who gathered at church that following Sunday, came to the conclusion that the Headless Horseman had taken Ichabod.
No one sought any other reasons for his disappearance because he had no family there; and he had no debts.
The school was moved to another part of the hollow and another teacher was hired.
He told the people that Ichabod Crane was alive.
He said that Ichabod left out of fear of the ghosts, and because Katrina had rejected him.
According to the farmer, Ichabod had moved far away, taught in a school, enrolled in school to study law, and had even been elected to public office.
Nevertheless, the older Dutch wives believed that he had been taken away by supernatural means.
Brom Bones, who married Katrina, “was observed to look exceedingly knowing whenever the story of Ichabod was related, and always burst into a hearty laugh at the mention of the pumpkin; which led some to suspect that he knew more about the matter than he chose to tell.”