"I may not have won a Grand Slam match before this but, I've got to tell you, I think it's going to keep happening," said Collins, who has not gone beyond the first round in any of her five previous Grand Slam appearances.
Collins' biggest result to date was a quarter-final victory last March over seven-time Grand Slam champion Venus Williams to become the first qualifier to reach the last four at the Miami Open.
Collins came into the match as a resounding underdog against the three-time Grand Slam champion but breezed through the opening set in just 20 minutes as one of the tournament's favourites was stunned on Margaret Court Arena.
Top seed Simona Halep will now take on seven-time champion Serena Williams in the quarter-finals on Monday, while eighth seed Petra Kvitova takes on home favourite Barty - meaning two more contenders will fall.
World number two Kerber looked to begin a comeback at the start of the second but was immediately pegged back before Collins smashed a backhand to break the German's serve again and take a 4-2 lead.
Defending champion Caroline Wozniacki was knocked out in the third round by five-time Grand Slam champion Maria Sharapova, who was then beaten by Australian Ashleigh Barty.
Wimbledon champion Angelique Kerber was knocked out of the Australian Open by world number 35 Danielle Collins in the biggest shock of the tournament.
Kerber was beaten by Halep in the semi-finals at last year's Australian Open and will be disappointed not to have made it further this time around.
I just go out fearless, just give it my all," said 25-year-old Collins, who is making her Australian Open debut.
The German broke early in the second set but was immediately broken back and dropped serve a further two times.
The 2016 champion's draw was favourable and on paper the route to the final looked within grasp, largely thanks to some tasty match-ups among the other contenders.
Collins needed just one match point to break again at the end and claim a ruthless victory.
The American hit 29 winners in the match and broke six times in total - winning almost 70% of the overall points.
Kerber, meanwhile, was among the favourites for the title and had dropped just 10 games in the previous three rounds.
The world number two was thrashed 6-0 6-2 in the fourth round in 56 minutes.
She will play either American fifth seed Sloane Stephens or Russian Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova in the quarter-finals.
She is relatively unknown on the WTA Tour after playing much of her tennis in the US college system.
"I better have many more of these.