the Hudson River lies the small market town called Greensburgh that is also known as Tarrytown in the great State of New York .
Crane was a native of Connecticut .
Ichabod was an itinerant school teacher who came to Sleepy Hollow to fill the teaching vacancy .
Ichabod Crane was considered the master singer of the neighborhood .
Crane was prone to carry gossip from one house to another .
Ichabod Crane was well­read .
Katrina had many admirers who were always watching each other .
Abraham was his chief competitor because Katrina encouraged his advances .
Ichabod described him as “ Herculean. ” Abraham was known throughout as Brom Bones .
Brom Bones was at the bottom of it. ” Such a formidable rival would discourage the average man , but not Ichabod Crane .
Ichabod became the object of whimsical persecution by Bones and his gang of rough riders. ” They stopped up the chimney at the time he was having his music class .
Ichabod was teaching music .
Ichabod was a suitable figure for such a steed. ” The horse ’ s name was Gunpowder , which suggests that he must have been fiery at one time .
Brom Bones was the hero of the scene , having come to the gathering on his favorite steed Daredevil , a creature , like himself , full of mettle and mischief , and which no one but himself could manage. ” As Ichabod entered the parlor , he gazed upon the delicacies of his imagination and he enjoyed them all as he contemplated owning all around him .
” Ichabod ’ s partner was Katrina who smiled in delight , while Brom Bones watched jealously from a corner in the room .
Ichabod was drawn to a gathering of old men who told stories of the war and former times .
Major André was taken , and which stood in the neighborhood. ” The favorite tale was that of the Headless Horseman who was said to roam the country , and to ride his horse through the churchyard cemetery .
André was captured and the stream was said to be haunted .
Ichabod was so scared that that his hair stood up on his head .
Ichabod was horror­struck on perceiving that he was headless ! ” He saw the stranger ’ s head hanging from his saddle .
Ichabod knew he was not safely out of the range of the Headless Horseman .
Van Ripper was the executor of Ichabod Crane ’ s estate .
Ichabod ’ s property was contained in one large bundle .
Ichabod ’ s last salary was the only money he had and it must have been on him when he disappeared .
Ichabod Crane was alive .
Ichabod was related , and always burst into a hearty laugh at the mention of the pumpkin; which led some to suspect that he knew more about the matter than he chose to tell . ”